I would like to create a "gcode executor" for the ROS system. Currently, the gcode interpreter creates a csv with parameters X,Y,Z, Orientation, toolhead speed, extrusion length, extrusion speed, move type, segment number, and gcode lines it came from. I would like to make a script that takes the output of the gcode interpeter and moves the toolhead continuously through the segments while sending the proper extrusion commands to klipper at the same time. I would like the script to be split into two visibly separate parts, one for the movement logic and one for the extrusion logic. Please use only the parameters passed on by the gcode interpreter.

Movement Logic:
I would like to use MoveIts compute cartesian path to plan and execute continuous moves along each segment. Additionally, I would like the toolhead to move at the speed specified in the waypoints (should be the same in each segment). The speed for each segment will be achieved by finding changing the velocity scale of max speed to match the toolhead speed. For example, if the target speed of the segment is 200 mm/min, and the max speed of the arm is 1000 mm/min, the velocity scale for the Cartesian scale would be 1/5. Since segments are a list of points, they should path plan from the current point (or the last point from the last move) through all the points in the segment until the end of the segment. Travel moves will generally be one point, so just compute cartesian path from the end point of the last segment to the singular travel point.

Extrusion Logic:
Each segment has a series of waypoints that each have a target point and delta e + extrusion rate for the move to that point. The executor should first compute the timestamped trajectory for the entire print, and then mark the timestamp at each waypoint. Once the list of waypoints with timestamps is constructed, the extrusion profile can be created. This profile will be a series of gcode commands that are time stamped to match the trajectory and can be sent to klipper for klipper to execute the commands at the specific timestamps. In each segment, the waypoint extrusion corresponds to the extrusion segment that led up to that point. So for every waypoint, the extrusion length and rate should be time stamped to match the trajectory timestamp of the previous waypoint. This ensures that the extrusion for that waypoint ends when the trajectory reaches the waypoint. There is a delay between the joint trajectory and when the klipper timestamp starts, so include a parameter at the top for a fixed delay to help align the joint trajectory time stamp with the klipper timestamp. To send values to klipper, use the moonraker HTTP API http://localhost:7125.